---
title: Storms
date: 2020-2-10
categories: blog
layout: post
---

As I write this, my family in my hometown are in the midst of the mother of all snowstorms.  There has been about 95cm of snow with winds of approximately 160 kilometers an hour.  It is all about and approximately because, more snow can come and the instruments which record the wind speed, stopped  recording at 160 k. This storm was from Thursday to Saturday. People are snowed in as snow is above their doors.  A state of emergency has been declared.  Another storm is expected on the Monday.

It sounds epic, but is there any mention of it in the papers?  No.  I suspect it is a case of wind and snow in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada?  That isn’t news, that is normal.

Storms are part of life.  Every time I drive past a flooded field, I am reminded that I am at sea level.  Every time it rains, I think people in other parts of the world would love such a downpour.

And we also have storms in our lives.  Demands on time and resources.  Difficult relationships.  Expectations not being fulfilled.  Sometimes we even doubt ourselves and God.

In Mark 4:35-40, Jesus calms the storm.  Rebukes it is the word Jesus uses in the NRSV.  That is a strong, powerful word.  The storm dissipates.  

The next part is interesting.  Jesus doesn’t say, “There you go, no more storms for you.”  Instead, Jesus says, “Why are you afraid?”  

It would be wonderful if in our faith journey, there were no storms.  I don’t know about you, but I could handle an uneventful life, like life on a desert island.  

But then if there no challenges, how would I learn about myself, God and my relationship with the Divine?  Or how to be empathic with others? How could I recognize or appreciate the smooth without the rough?  How would I know that God is indeed with me, always, without the challenges?

What Jesus is talking about here is assurance, not insurance.  Faith is not a policy we take out to prevent us from feeling the impact of the storms of life.  Faith is the assurance that even in the storms of life, we that we are not alone.  God is with us and that there is hope.  

I phoned Dad and asked how he was doing.  “  Fine, all is well.  Lots of food in, staying in, watching the storm.  Got wood burner and generator if power goes out.  Got your aunties organized to come here if theirs goes out.  How are you doing, more to the point.  Hear there’s lots of flooding over there.”

And I thought Dad, you are the minister today.  Such assurance, even in the midst of a storm, and still concern for others.  

I pray for you that your storms are few.  I also pray for you that when you do find challenge, that you will remember that you are not alone in them.  We hold each other in prayer, and in all things, Jesus is in the boat with you. 

  

