---
title: The Seed
date: 2020-05-05
---


John and I enjoy our daily constitutional first thing in the morning.  We walk the back roads of Coxley.  The world is
just beginning to wake up.  We are greeted by birds; geese, herons and swans.  Cows are curious and wonder who we are, 
and no doubt, if we have food. The mist dances around the Tor. And John and I look at each other and with wonder and joy 
in our voices say to one another, 'We live here'.

One morning we noticed barley growing in the most unlikely of places.  There, where someone's thick stone wall met the
concrete pavement, there a seed of barley had found a niche and grew in abundance.  Maybe the wind blew it there, maybe a 
bird dropped it, but there, in the most unlikely of places, grey and cold and harsh, with seemingly little nourishment, 
grew the most beautiful green plant.

And I thought there is a message in there somewhere.

In John 14:1-14, Jesus offers a message of hope.  This message comes just before the events of Holy Week.  In this week, 
Jesus and the disciples will experience a new normal, something different from the camaraderie, the miracles, 
the teachings that they had known.  Now there would be confusion, separation and even despair.

Jesus gives them these words of hope, for them to draw on in the new normal.  In this Jesus talks about the power and 
empowering nature of relationships, both between humans and between humans and the Divine.  Further, the disciples are 
asked to trust in Jesus who is the Way, the Truth and the Life.

Jesus and Jesus Way of compassion, forgiveness, justice, love and hope are what is truly important.  Further, to live
such a way is for all to life, fully and freely.  Jesus's life of servant love, of agape love is the way to live this 
love.

Agape love is the sort of love which asks, What is best for you?  It asks how this course of action, this vote, this
purchase, this decision will benefit others.  Agape love does not ask, What is in this for me?  Rather, it asks, What 
is in this for all God's creatures and indeed, creation itself?  That is its focus, and its hope.

Jesus's words of hope still speak to us in this new normal.  It may well feel that we are cut off from one another by 
walls more grey and solid than the one we see that day.  But the Holy Spirit is still seeking to plant in hearts and souls
the seed of hope, made known I agape love.

Wherever you are, however you are, keep hope alive.  The Way of Jesus can, and does, grow in the most unlikely of places, 
and most often where you least expect.    It will startle and surprise you.  For this way will keep us in relationship 
which no walls can ever divide.    An empty tomb is witness and sign.

Let us keep praying for one another.  Let us worship where we are.  Let us keep in contact however we can.  Keep learning
and growing.  Keep resting and being.  And in all things, keep loving and hoping.

God Bless you all.


