---
title: Lyre's
date: 2020-06-08
---


I am awaiting the delivery of a lyre harp.

Not many people know this, but back in my Sunday school days when I heard that David could play the lyre so well that it calmed down King Saul, I thought to myself, I want to play one of those.

And one day I will, maybe not very well, but I will.

You can just see and hear David, plucking away at his lyre harp as he composed his Psalms.  The thing is that David wasn't writing music to get in the top 40, or put a roof over his head or even appear on Top of the Pops.

David played music to praise and reach God, and also to touch and reconnect with his higher and best self.  To be a 
musician was a noble, spiritual, nay, religious pursuit in David's day.

We also know that David was a warrior, who slew quite a few.   So here you have a person, torn in two directions.  On one
hand, he seeks to build up the world in God's love and on the other, is engaged in warfare.

Music somehow kept him in balance.

David is said to have written my favorite Psalm 139, that talks about God knowing us and loving us, searching us, that 
there is nowhere were we can go where God is not, that God knits us and all creation in love.   It's good stuff.  If you 
haven't read it yet, go for it.

Spoiler alert though.  There is one section which gets quite messy.  David talks about hate and destroying enemies and 
then goes back to all the love stuff.  It seems so out of place that many readers skip it.

But if any passage ever speaks to the tension of the human condition, it is this one.  Like David, we seem like one hand
holds love and the other fear and where is our balance?

What is it about humans that we can tend the sick and also teargas the oppressed?    Like David there is a tension within 
all of us to do great things and destructive things. The balance is God and God's vision of hope and love and joy and 
peace.

Let us all take up the lyre harp, if not a real one, then a spiritual one.  Let it be the music of love and hope and joy 
and peace which brings balance to the world, which challenges injustice and sets the whole creation free.

I may never play my instrument, when it comes, well or even in public.  But its vision, of how it brings us closer to God,
ourselves and one another, well, that is music that I pray all would play with their lives and voices.  Let us sing it in 
how we treat one another, in how we care for one another, in how we hold power to account.

For what would the world be like if we all knew that we were fearfully and wonderfully made?

Keep the faith.

