---
title: What Odds
date: 2020-06-01
---


What odds is a phrase we use a lot where I come from in Newfoundland and Labrador.  We have our own dialect, and some would
say language.  Some words and phrases and even accents we brought with us from over here when we moved across the Atlantic;
some we developed.  I find myself regularly turning to John and asking Is that a British phrase?  John now says, I've 
been tangled up with your family for so long now, I hardly know.

Turns out what odds definitely is not.  After using this phrase for some time, a sympathetic, loving and concerned friend
turned to me and asked, Ah, I hate to ask this, but do you have a gambling problem?  You keep asking for the odds.

It causes me to reflect on words and if we fully understand what we mean when we use them.

Take this passage from Matthew 28:16-20.  It is the last thing Jesus tells the disciples, before he ascends into heaven, a
sign that both Jesus and the way of Jesus, are blessed by God.

We, in these in between days, are called to pray, watch in anticipation of the final restoration, and serve.  That is our
ministry.

Jesus expands it a bit further for us here.  It is to make disciples by baptizing them and teaching all that Jesus taught 
us.

The emphasis is on the word make.  Now, to get back to what odds, do we all agree on the word, to make?

First off, what are we called to make?  I would posit a world of justice, love, of peace, a world where all are treated
with respect and a fair share of earth's resources and where even creation itself is honoured and cared for.

If we agree that is what we are involved in the making of, then how?

We have seen some examples of how in recent days.  Do as I say, not as I do, seems to be one understanding of how to make.
Another seems to be the end justifies the means which only seems to breed further violence, as we sadly see played out 
before us once again.

The question needs to be, and should be, asked by everyone who gets this vision of creation restored, and in every 
generation.  Twas ever thus.  Jesus's initial followers included people on the margin, people from the working class, 
people who embraced direct action and others who believed in non- violent resistance. 

What making are we called to be a part of and how do we make it?

Which brings us back to what odds. 

What odds means don't worry about it, tis a trifling matter, you are forgiven.

What odds then is about compassion, forgiveness and understanding that we are all under grace.

In a world of pandemonium, where all sorts of evils seem to have been unleased, to encourage people to believe in a vision 
of compassion and justice for all, where we really are one family, now that would indeed be a making to be involved in.  

Wherever we are, however we are, let this be our guiding principle. By our prayers, witness and service, let us help, by 
God's grace, to make another way.  As the lockdown eases, as we seek to be gracious with one another in that journey, let 
us remember we are called to make with compassion, forgiveness and hope.



